## Nothing Turns Out How You Think It Will
##### Life is long. Dreams are weird. Reality is chaos.
---
[Original Source](https://psiloveyou.xyz/nothing-turns-out-how-you-think-it-will-bf2ed9dd4a73)

I remember, when I was young, I wanted to be an astronaut. I wanted to plant myself in a rocket, shoot myself into the vast expanse of the cosmos, and scour the stars. Then, I rode a Tilt-A-Whirl, threw up a few times, and drew up a Plan B.

I don’t think it’s a stretch to say that, up until pretty recently, I had peaked in high school. I was a multi-sport athlete, and an all-New York State drummer who graduated with high honors. I chilled in the homecoming court, and I would soon make my way to Syracuse University to study broadcast journalism. I was an actual Eagle Scout who’d never been on the wrong side of the law, and I’m pretty sure at the time I could be safely labeled a “Rockefeller Republican.”

I was also madly in love with this absolutely spellbinding woman — an extraordinarily smart, fierce, warm, witty girl with a big heart and flawless eyes. In the Summer of 2000, we went to the beach together, and first made love in the most romantic — and cliche — way ever. We waited for my parents to skip town, I took her out to a nice Italian dinner, came back home to make some popcorn, and then we cuddled on the couch to watch a movie we had no intention of finishing, before we drove out to a field to lay under the stars.

I had dreams of settling down with her after college, and we’d live in a beautiful suburban home, in a good-sized television market. I’d come home from doing the news and she’d come home from being a chemical engineer and doing whatever chemical engineers do. We’d park our BMWs next to each other in our two-car garage and crack open some wine. And we’d even invite our nanny to stay for dinner, after she finished tutoring our daughter in Spanish and Clarinet.

Some time late freshman year of college, I left her, to start a fling with a capricious neo-hippie from Fairfield County who was also extraordinarily smart, fierce, warm and witty, with a big heart and flawless eyes. We also went to the beach together, but when we went to the beach, we popped molly, smoked pot, played guitar till sunrise and slammed tequila shots. We took the subway into New York just to wander around unsupervised and eat pizza.

We broke several misdemeanor laws together, and when we made love, it physically broke us both — and was generally preceded by a screaming match and followed by a good cry. We couldn’t keep our hands off each other: In a library, or a movie theater, or a field of tall grass. Then she cheated on me, called me to tell me she didn’t love me anymore, and I didn’t hear from her again for several years.

The gal I initially left? The future chemical engineer? Well, she followed through and became one, moved to the New York area, bought a BMW, married a handsome, wealthy commercial real estate broker and bought a spacious suburban home in one of those school districts where they teach kids Spanish and Clarinet in kindergarten.

**What did I do? Well, we’ll get to that.**

Iwant to talk about goals. So many of them are unremarkable. From around the time I stopped wanting to be an astronaut, I started wanting a fairly ordinary life. I wanted to buy a house, get married, have some kids, make some money, get in shape, and do a moderate amount of traveling. In my own dealings with others, and in my own unfunded research, I’ve concluded these goals are fairly common across most people. (I do realize there’s a fair bit of bias in the data here, as I know a disproportionate number of people who are white, straight, middle-class and around my age, relative to the world at large.) The goals we think would make an exceptional life, are actually pretty basic. The paths to those ends may be long and winding, and they may be as varied between people as their fingerprints, but the steps taken all look pretty much the same. One foot in front of the other, each road paved in failed New Year’s Resolutions.

Where we tend to strive for the exceptional is in the quality of these ordinary milestones. A better house. A more loving, extraordinary spouse. Healthy and well-adjusted kids. Six-pack abs. Sojourns to seven continents. These are offshoots of the same basic goals, amped up by increased ambition and/or vanity, depending on how evil you think the human spirit is. Yet, even these feel somewhat ordinary in the infinite age. With the proliferation of media — print, broadcast and social — we’ve been sold #LivingMyBestLife as both the ideal state, and also as the default. There are two reasons for this:

Advertising is exponentially more prevalent now than it’s ever been.
It’s now harder than ever to avoid comparing yourself to your peers.
If everyone — on TV or on Facebook or in Texas Monthly — has the wrap-around porch, an app in development, or a 40-Under-40 Award, then it stands to reason that you could find yourself feeling defective and weird if you do not. Maybe rather than champagne with the girls at one of those sustainable farm-to-table restaurants with an ampersand in the name, you’re sipping scotch alone while watching Sixers-Nets and tweeting about it. Maybe that eats at you because you don’t feel very “normal.”

There’s another downside to this. This “normal” that we speak of — the one we romanticize? Because of how often we’re carpet-bombed with images of this idealized state, and how hard we aspire to it, and how normal we think that it is, we’re ill-prepared for when life deals one of its patented left-hooks to the jaw.

When we get the call from the family physician, and find out our daughter has Lymphoma, or when we see images of war and brutality beamed right into our home. And we say that this is absolutely capital n, capital n, Not Normal. Or, one day we come to find our spouse in our bed with someone we knew but wish we didn’t, and then papers come soon after and we need to find a place of our own and have our 23 year-old junior account executive teach us how to use Bumble. The idyllic utopia sold to us stands in for reality, because it feels like it should be reality, when in actual reality, reality is a lot more gritty and messy than that. Ask anyone who’s lost someone they’ve loved, or been given up for dead, or watched their family unit torn apart by drugs or mental illness or an overeager system of mass incarceration.

When you take the long view of life, the true “normal” is pure chaos. Death, adversity, illness, struggle, hunger, pain, suffering, war and distraction. These are the events we document, overcome and remember. There is never a perfect time. Pax Humana is not eternal. We will live. We will die. And in between, we will be very afraid of losing people we love — I suppose that’s another dream many of us share: To preserve our relationships as long as possible, and to lose as few people we love as possible, as late and as peacefully as possible.

Isaw the woman I left my high-school sweetheart for last year in Brooklyn. We hadn’t been a “thing” in some 15 years or so, and we hadn’t seen each other in 12. She looked good. A little older, the years had been hard but kind, and she still had the same deep gaze and genuine empathy that drew me to her in the first place. We slammed several vodkas to avoid overthinking about just what the hell we were doing there, or what the hell we were going to talk about, or how we were going to talk about it. We moved some charcuterie around without ever really trying to eat it. Toward the end of our summit, I thanked her. She asked me why.

I ran back the years between 2002 and 2017 in my head. I’d been to two more colleges, studied two more majors, started singing and playing guitar, waited tables, tended bar, snorted coke, got arrested, took mushrooms in the desert, seen some 500 concerts, climbed some 20 mountains, visited every city in the U.S., moved to Texas, held a variety of odd remote-work jobs, got fired, lived in my car, ran marathons, learned MS Excel, started voting reliably Democratic, claimed both $11,000 and $110,000 on my 1040, became a writer, started getting paid to do some freelance journalism, got a nine-to-five in a cube-farm at a giant corporation, befriended some B- and C-list celebrities, and cheap wine and rap-metal faded into mid-grade bourbon and free jazz.

I reminisced about all my friends who I stood up for at their weddings, and about all my ex-girlfriends who never quite made it all the way to mine. I thought about housewarming party after bachelor party after baby shower, and about all the ones I saw on Facebook that I didn’t attend, and about all the times I was invited over to help young couples build a deck, remodel their kitchen, or just to enjoy some BBQ on their new deck or in their new kitchen. I think about all the times they would tell me how fucking cool it was that I had an SI byline, traveled the world and still played guitar in bars. Mostly, I thought about the slight twinge of heartache in our voices, after the kids had gone to bed and we’d all had too much to drink, as we each tried to convince the other that the grass was greener on the other side.

I snapped back to Brooklyn, 2017. I looked at the woman across from me, who once meant so much but about whom I now knew so little, and said to her, “Thank you for making me interesting.” We aggressively kissed goodbye at the table like I was going off to prison, or to war. And then I grabbed the check, stumbled into my Uber, and boarded a flight at JFK to come back to Austin. I drank more gin on the plane, drunkenly pretended I was blasting off into space the way I wanted to when I was young, and awkwardly flirted with the gal sitting next to me. We drank more gin and made out on the plane. She came home with me, and was gone before I woke up — which was just as well.

After all, I had to get to work by 9 a.m. Back at the office. Back on that grind. Back to normal. Whatever the hell that means anymore.